Lyons Africa's top carnival weighing up
to 190 kilograms and measuring 3 meters
from head to tail they are formidable
animals in their own right but working
together they're unstoppable predators
but what usually happens to lion cubs
who aren't related to the male's of the
pride and what makes line society so
complex
[Music]
male lions often kill the offspring of
their competitors this brutal behavior
brings the lionesses quickly back into
heat and helps the resident males ensure
the cubs are carrying their genes and
not an outsider's
but unlike other big cats lions need
company to thrive in fact they are the
most sociable cat species on earth so
what is it that has driven lions to
become so sociable working as a pride
Lions are able to tackle much larger
prey than they could ever catch alone
[Music]
they can tackle Buffalo giraffes hippos
and even occasionally elephants in fact
lions have been known to catch elephants
up to 15 times their own body weight
which is the greatest prey to predator
weight ratio of any land carnivore this
ability opens up a wealth of opportunity
- Lions who can adapt their choice of
prey to survive the ever-changing
conditions of their environment it's
also allowed Lions to command a huge
range of habitats from the deserts of
Namibia to the forests of India so there
are clear advantages to hunting in a
pride but how does the pride system work
lionesses will not tolerate outsider
females and they form prides with their
relatives and young but male lions are
excluded from their mothers pride at
around the age of two when they will
have to leave to form partnerships or
coalition's with other males usually
starting out as nomadic bachelors they
will fight to overpower rival males and
gain control of their own pride being
the laziest of big cats Lions will often
sleep for up to 20 hours a day but with
the constant threat of rivals on the
horizon resident males have to keep an
eye out and will viciously protect their
territory or Pridelands from intruders
females meanwhile typically hunt for the
pride in a highly coordinated ambush
where each lioness has her own position
in the attack
all this social cooperation has led to
lions developing the most complex
communication systems of any big cats
from facial expressions and body
postures through to grunts snarls purrs
woofs and of course roars in fact the
male's roar is the loudest of any flee
line and can be heard up to eight
kilometers away despite being one of the
world's best hunters Lions are in
trouble over 90% of their range has now
been lost due to habitat destruction
hunting and poaching meaning that in the
last century alone numbers have dropped
from 200,000 to just 20,000 Lions
internationally this makes the survival
of the Lions more important now than
ever
[Music]